All right.
In the last section, we have completed the comment section and we got all the data from the database
and show it here just above the input section.
In this section, we are going to achieve the like functionality.
If you look at the final version of the project here.
You can see that the first.
Posed with the bird has two likes.
Let's check the database.
And the database is install version one, because that is the final version.
So we checked the.
This is a sunset, this one is the nice bird.
So as you can see.
And we have another collection called Likes.
So we had the comments and we have another one, which is likes.
And this one has two people already at.
Already life, this is not a random idea that you can see here.
This is just a random idea that the virus creates.
But this is actually the user name I.D. that is coming from the Gmail.
And if you remember, we added this font to our session.
We modified the session and we got the user ID as well.
So we are going to use that information to instead of just adding a random number or a random I.D.,
you're going to add a user name I.D. And if you click this one, we see that you get the username as
well.
So username is this one.
The other one is this one.
The reason we are doing that one because we want to have a unique link and we're going to check if the
person is liked or not.
So we can based on that bitcoin we can control and also we can show the button red or empty.
So let's go to our post that is in the Visual Studio code, and we open our local host three thousand
on the right side.
So let's create another estate called has liked.
So we want to know you want to be sure that there is a like or not.
So at a time after the comments, we're going to add in other states, this state is it you can call
it has like.
Or has liked.
And we're just at the SIT has like.
And this is going to be equal to use a state, and this is going to be false as a default.
The initial value would be false because if there's nobody clicked, yeah, it should be empty and there
is no like so has like, it's false.
Now, instead of having one hot button here, you're going to have to.
One is filth, one is empty and one should be read.
One should be just feet off color.
So we have here a heart icon.
So let's make it two, and let's make the first one at the back of picks.
Color.
Color of, uh, red.
And the number would be four hundred, but this is just an empty heart.
We want the field one.
So there is another icon called heart icon filled.
And we should important as well.
At a top.
So just after this week at.
Heart icon, filth.
Let's refresh the page.
So they said in.
Components.
I think this uh.
You know, this is not called heart icon, actually, we need to.
Bring this fun from something, sound from the solid, actually.
And let's copy this.
And we changed our client to solid.
This is actually called a hot heart icon, but.
Because we have two heart icons, this is going to be confusing and repetitive.
So we're going to change this one as heart icon felt.
So now let's refresh the page.
Know we have a solid icon, the heart icon with the red color and one empty.
We want to show this one.
If this this state here we created it has like it's true and if it's false, we want to show this one.
So here we create a ternary operator at a time.
Here we just say if the haves like.
It's true.
Then showed.
This so he copied and pasted here.
Otherwise.
Sure, this one.
So we put it aside this.
No.
Let's refresh the page.
Now we see only the.
Empty one because they filled the the field one.
Has the condition of the House like to be true, which is false now because we haven't liked yet?
So in order to have this one, we need to add on to the icon.
So and you're going to call it function.
So here in the heart, I feel and heart icon, you're going to add Uncle, so I buy all.
I choose both of them.
So we just say and click.
And the old cliff is going to call a function called let's call it like post.
All right.
But we should define this.
So let's go off and create the function.
So just above the.
This function will create a scent for scent comment, we create another asynchronous function.
And we call this one sent.
So like most.
So.
So this is going to be a weight as well, and this is going to sit at documents.
And the document would be.
From Doc, this is a building function from fire store and from we get the DPI data.
And this is going to be inside the posts and I.D. because this is a unique post.
For example, if you like here, it's different from liking the next sponsor.
We need to have the I.D. and then record this collection likes.
And after that, we're going to get this session.
That's user that user I.D..
So this is going to be unique each like.
I don't know, we have.
Imported decision or not?
Yeah, we have a decision here.
But, uh, we need.
Let's see that we get an error by clicking here, if we get error, we know.
Yes, Sitak is not the find the reason we at.
We use set-top instead of at dark because we want to change this.
Sitak.
We.
We are not.
Adding something via modify, sometimes like sometimes to remove the rock.
So we use the sitar can be imported.
So let's try again by looking.
So the duck duck is not the fire, so we talk as well.
So this is a good way to check if something is imported or not.
So let's try again.
To find further.
Functions that are called with invalid data.
The reason for this fight is we haven't finished it yet, because after this, we're going to actually.
Set to use an app, so here.
After this one, we need to create the object, and we're going to submit this object so that it things
we want to say is username.
Equals the session that user not use it.
OK, now we try again.
So we didn't get any error.
That's the good news, so we got the database and we selected the database we are working on, which
is insert a version for.
No.
Let's check the there one that yeah, this one the next year, of course, which is the we like, let's
check that we created the light collection and this is this one has the user name I.D., which is coming
from Google and the user name is created.
So that was successful the next step.
Is to actually remove the like.
So here, when we called the function, set it dark here, we need to add a ternary operator or just
the.
Normal if condition, and we check that if the horse has a like or not, if it has a life, we remove
the like and if it doesn't have to like.
So we sit there like before doing this one, we need to get the lax data.
So we should know that if there is a leak inside the database or not.
So we we don't know yet.
So we should create another parameter or another state call and let's create another state and we call
it likes.
So you want to get the LAX, so we have to set LAX.
And we just used to use a state and we set it to be empty bracket, which means there is no like yet
initial value.
And in order to understand if there is a like or not, we need to use use effective fish fetch data
from the database.
So we use the use effect.
We create a function.
And here we add added dependency, which is.
Likes, so we're going to add a.
So.
If you just sit, sit there has like like this.
So we loop through to the likes and we check the index.
Let me explain this one in a way with the.
Drawing.
So.
Imagine here.
So let me yeah, just we have an array of likes here.
So this is the user one.
And then we have user to.
I use a three.
Is a tree and use it for.
All right.
And each of them has an index that the first index is zero.
Then we have this one, two and three.
So what we do here is we go to the likes array.
All right.
We checked the index.
So if there is a one
one user, the index is zero, if there is a two.
So we have zero and one.
All right.
And the number that is not existed in this area is minus one.
So we don't have minus one or minus two, so we check everything.
And if there is no minus one means that we have a like.
All right.
If this this one is not equal, so we have a minus one, so.
Let's create this one.
So we just said likes.
And we find the index.
We get each of the like each person that's life and.
We check that it's like that I.D..
Is equal to session.
That user.
Doth user I.D..
Yeah.
So this is going to give us.
So we're going to look through the indexes.
We want to look to the likes and we check if each life has an I.D. equal to the user I.D., as we can
see inside the here.
So now we have one.
If another person like you have two, so you're checking that this.
No.
This number is equal to the number that person is locked in, which is a session that uses that user
ID.
So if this one happened, so we get an index, for example, at the second user in the array, I, I
wrote, I draw.
If the second, yeah, second one in the array is the user, this is going to gives us an index of one.
All right.
So.
And then we said if this is not equal.
This one is not.
Let me clear this for another minute.
If this is not equal to minus one, if this if it's not equal to minus one, it means that nobody liked
it yet.
But if the index we get, it's anything like a zero one, two three and et cetera.
We have like and we have like because there is an I.D. which is equal to decision that user that user
I.D..
So we sit there has like now, let's save this one and test it.
You said a light post is not defined.
Yeah.
Not because it's not as if we created the function here.
Cause like post.
So do.
We just have to see something went.
Yeah, we.
We didn't close.
Yeah, this added a comma here.
So now it should be fine.
So the first one.
Let's like it and to check.
So this is OK.
It should actually show us the red button instead of the this one.
Let's check it again.
Sit has like likes that.
Fine index, like is equal to like that idea.
This one is.
Equal, not equal to minus one.
And this one looks fine.
And we have has life.
Yeah, we haven't set the locks yet, actually.
So we should get the facts first.
So here at the top of this.
This use effect, we need to get the LAX because we don't have the LAX yet.
So you just say use the fact similar way and the and the dependency and the dependency is just at the
tip.
So we want to get the information.
That's why we need to use the snapshot, so we just create a constant unsubscribe you use on snapshot.
And here we are going to.
Beginning the collection and the collection as we get here, is deep post idea instead of comments,
it should be lax.
And here.
So let me save this.
And here we are getting after this.
A snapshot.
Let's check it.
Yeah, just after this, we're getting this snapshot.
And this snapshot is going to fit the likes.
To a snapshot.
Ducks.
So this is we have done.
This one is in.
Forty seven.
Because we need to protect the session.
So if would just add something here?
This is very OK.
So we refresh the page.
Now we can see that the first one has their red icon.
All right.
And the second one to me.
But when we click.
Actually, nothing happened.
We need to remove their like.
So we haven't at this functionality yet.
So the places we added like here, this function like post, so we set the light, but we want to delete
the like if there is a like.
So we just create a.
You create a function in life if condition.
And we say if there is a like has black.
Then.
So let's.
If there is a like we want to await and deleted like so we use the Delete Doc Delete.
Delete doc utility of the Firebase, then we just similar to what we have done here.
We can copy this one, actually.
Yes, copy this, they said here.
And we need another parenthesis.
OK.
So we deleted like.
From which phone, which documented the deep post ideologues and decision to user so both otherwise
we had else here.
Otherwise, we want to set the back.
So now.
Let's refresh the page.
So we have to lie.
But if we click, no, we should remove the light.
And inside the database.
And let's decrease the size of the database so you can see the adding and removing.
So when we click here to remove the locks again, we add the deluxe and if we sign in with another user.
Let's imagine we sign in with my other Google account.
So let's go to Google.
And another account.
I don't know, it went outside.
So let me quickly add my credentials.
So here.
Well, let me.
They're fine myself and my other device.
See?
OK.
So that's finished now.
Let's.
Let's sign in with other accounts.
Yeah, I highly recommend you have to two accounts to test your system, so, you know the functionality
better.
So you have a I sign in with my other account.
No, you can see that there's no like here because I haven't liked this post with this account here.
So when I like, you should see another idea comes to you.
So you can see now there are two ideas.
The other one is the discount.
And if I remove just remove it, so it's very fast, fibrous, it's very fast because the utility they
use, all the system is based on Google's system and it's everywhere in the world.
And if you want a very fast application or website, I highly recommend to use Firebase.
All right.
So in the next section, we are going to deploy the website to Verso and we're going to get it.
Put it inside a custom URL.
So let's do our.
Get hop section, so we have to get at and we come at it with a new comment with the message of.
And the message would be.
Apply like functionality.
Functionality.
So we push it to get hard.
Let's review our code because it was a lot of work.
So let's review what we have done, so let's refresh our up and go to the last comment.
So we, uh, we created another heart icon and it filled one.
We got it from solid and we created two states.
One is the like and one is has liked, so we got the all the likes.
And we also check if the, uh, the the post has a like or not.
And we got, uh, all the.
This is not the vote for the previous one here.
Yeah.
Here we got all the likes.
Using on a snapshot and collection.
Then.
We check if it's there's a link with the user name I.D. or not by this one.
This use of bay and the we just use a logic we could we check all the index and we check if the person
is liked or not and if the I the index was minus one.
It was not minus fun it it meant that it has a like.
All right.
So, yeah, yeah, it has a like.
So we have we have created a function called lactose, which has two things to do.
First one, if there is a lie, we delete the like if there is no like.
We set a light with the user name.
To it and, uh, we create we added another a heart icon, and we said if there is a light show, the
fifth one, if there is no light, just show the empty one.
And uh, yeah, that was it.
For this part.
In the next section, we're going to deploy this website.
To the reversal, and we we added to our custom URL as well, if you have it, you bought a domain,
you can add this fund to the domain to I show you how to do it and also you're going to add something
called secret.
If you look at here.
We are always getting an error.
It's been.
Yeah, go to our server and run the.
Mostly, we get an error.
All of us think that there is no secret to fine, but we haven't get any issue yet because we are not
in a we are in a deployment mode.
If you go to the production mode, the lack of burst or we we should define a secret is you can see
this warning from next off.
So I'm going to show you how to create a secret so we don't get any animal and we we can successfully
deploy our side to versa.
So see in the next section for this part.